
                        STAR BOOK No. 230    35¢




                                   in
                                FASHIONS
                           for him    for her
                        IN KNITS    IN CROCHETS


    [Illustration: american thread
    HIGH RIDGE PARK, STAMFORD. CONN. 06905
    PRINTED IN U.S.A.]




                           _The Long V-Necks_


                                          _as seen in color on our cover_

    [Illustration: V-Neck]

  SIZES:
  LADIES: Small, Medium, Large
  MENS: Small, Medium, Large
  Materials Required:
  AMERICAN THREAD
  DAWN “WINTUK” KNITTING WORSTED
  SIZE
    5 (6, 6)—2 oz. skeins Coral Spice for Ladies
    7 (8, 9)—2 oz. skeins Beige for Mens
  1 Pr. Knitting Needles No. 8 OR ANY SIZE NEEDLES WHICH WILL RESULT IN
              STITCH GAUGE BELOW
  Plastic Crochet Hook Size F
  1—2 inch Buckle
  GAUGE: 5 sts = 1 inch; 6 rows = 1 inch

Directions are given for Ladies Small size. Change for Medium and Large
sizes are given in parentheses. Mens Small, Medium and Large sizes are
given in bold face type.

  MEASUREMENTS:
  Width across back or front at underarm:
  LADIES: 17½, 18½, 19½ inches
  MENS: 21, 22, 23 inches

RIGHT ARMHOLE FACING: Work 2 and set aside. Cast on 7 sts (all sizes).
1st ROW: P across row. 2nd ROW: K 5, sl next st as if to P, K 1. 3rd
ROW: P across row. Repeat last 2 rows until work measures 3½ inches
ending with P row. Place on st holder.

LEFT ARMHOLE FACING: Work 2 and set aside. Cast on 7 sts (all sizes).
1st ROW: P across row. 2nd ROW: K 1, sl next st as if to P, K 5. 3rd
ROW: P across row. Repeat last 2 rows until work measures 3½ inches
ending with P row. Place on st holder.

BACK: Cast on 90 (95, 100); 105, 110, 115 sts. START PATTERN: 1st ROW: P
across row. 2nd ROW: K 2, * sl 1 as if to P, K 4, repeat from * across
row ending last repeat with K 2. Repeat these 2 rows for pattern. Work
even in pattern for 2 (2, 2); 3, 3, 3 inches. Keeping continuity of
pattern, dec 1 st at beg and end of next row. Dec in same manner every
4th row 9 (9, 9) times; every 10th row 4 (4, 4) times; 70 (75, 80); 95,
100, 105 sts. Work even in pattern until back measures 14 (14, 14); 16,
16, 16 inches from beg. NEXT ROW: Inc 1 st at beg and end of row.
Keeping continuity of pattern, inc in same manner every 4th row 8 (8, 8)
times; every 10th row 4, 4, 4 times. Work even on 88 (93, 98); 105, 110,
115 sts until back measures 20 (20, 20); 23, 23, 23 inches from beg.
SHAPE ARMHOLES: Bind off 6 sts at beg of next 2 rows (all sizes). Bind
off 2 sts at beg of next 4 rows; then dec 1 st at beg of next 4 (4, 4);
6, 6, 6 rows, cut yarn. Slip sts of right facing to left needle. NEXT
ROW: Attach yarn, K 5, sl next st as if to P, then K next st of facing
and 1st st of back section together, work in pattern to within last st,
working from st holder, K last st of back and 1st st of left facing tog,
sl next st as if to P, K 5. NEXT ROW: P across row. Then keeping
continuity of pattern, work even until back measures 8 (8½, 9); 9, 9½,
10 inches from 1st bind off. SHAPE SHOULDERS: Bind off 12 (12, 12); 14,
14, 14 sts at beg of next 2 rows. Then bind off Ladies 6 sts at beg of
next 4 rows; and Mens 8 sts at beg of next 2 rows and 7 sts at beg of
next 2 rows. Bind off remaining 28 (33, 38); 33, 38, 43 sts.

                                             _continuation from page 20_

FRONT: Work same as back until front measures 19 (19, 19); 22, 22, 22
inches ending on wrong side. V NECK SHAPING: LEFT SIDE: Work across 44
(46, 49); 52, 55, 57 sts, place remaining sts on st holder. Cast on 6
sts for front facing. NEXT ROW: P across row. NEXT ROW: Work in pattern
to within last 6 sts, sl 1 as if to P, K 5. Repeat last 2 rows for
pattern; dec 1 st before last sl st of front facing every 4th and 2nd
row until 13 (15, 18); 15, 18, 20 sts are dec at neck edge; at the same
time when front measures same as back to underarm shape armhole and work
armhole facing same as back. Work even until armhole measures same as
back. SHAPE SHOULDER: Work same as back. Continue on 7 neck facing sts 3
(3, 3); 3½, 3½, 3½ inches to fit to center back of neck. Bind off. RIGHT
SIDE: Place sts from holder on left needle. Cast on 6 (5, 6); 5, 6, 5
sts on right needle, then work in pattern across sts on left needle.
Work to correspond to left side of garment reversing all shaping.

LADIES BELT: Cast on 16 sts. 1st ROW: P across row. 2nd ROW: K 4, sl 1
as if to P, K 6, sl 1 as if to P, K 4. Repeat last 2 rows for desired
length. Bind off. FINISHING: Steam each section lightly. Sew armhole
facings at underarm. Sew shoulder and side seams. Weave ends of neck
facing tog; sew neck facing to back of neck. Turn neck and armhole
facing to wrong side and tack in place. Weave long edges of belt tog.
Attach buckle to one end of belt. With right side facing, attach yarn at
side seam and work a sl st in each st all around lower edge.




                          _The New High Rise_


                                          _as seen in color on our cover_

    [Illustration: Vest and skirt]


                        CROCHETED VEST AND SKIRT

  Sizes: Small to Medium, Medium to Large
  Materials Required:
  AMERICAN THREAD
  DAWN “SAYELLE”® or “DAWN” KNITTING WORSTED
    4 (5)—4 oz. skeins Lemon or Amber for vest and skirt or
    2 (2)—4 oz. skeins for Vest
    3 (3)—4 oz. skeins for Skirt
  Plastic Crochet Hook Size H for Skirt; Size H for Small to Medium
              Vest; Size I for Medium to Large Vest OR ANY SIZE HOOKS
              WHICH WILL RESULT IN STITCH GAUGE BELOW.
  1—7 inch CONMAR No/Snag Skirt Zipper
  GAUGE:
  SKIRT
    H hook: 3 sts = 1 inch
  VEST
    H hook: 1 d c, d c shell, 1 d c = 2 inches
    I hook: 1 d c, d c shell, 1 d c = 2¼ inches
  MEASUREMENTS:
  Width across back at underarm:
    16 (18) inches.
  Width across each front at underarm:
    8 (9) inches.

Skirt directions are given for small to medium size. Changes for medium
to large size are given in parentheses. Different size hooks are used
for vest. (See gauge.)


                                 SKIRT

Ch 73 (77), 1 s c in 2nd st from hook and in each remaining st of ch, ch
1, turn. 2nd ROW: S c in 1st s c, d c in next s c, * s c in next s c, d
c in next s c, repeat from * across row, ch 1, turn. 3rd ROW: S c in 1st
d c, d c in next s c, * s c in next d c, d c in next st, repeat from *
across row. Repeat 3rd row for pattern always working an s c over a d c
and a d c over an s c. 4th ROW: (Inc row) Work in pattern across 1st 10
(12) sts, * 1 s c, 1 d c in next st, repeat from * once (1 pattern inc),
* work in pattern across next 14 sts, inc in next 2 sts, repeat from
last * twice, work in pattern across next 12 (14) sts, ch 1, turn. NEXT
5 ROWS: Work even in pattern. NEXT ROW: Work in pattern across 1st 8
(10) sts, inc in next 2 sts, * work in pattern across next 18 (18) sts,
inc in next 2 sts, repeat from * twice, work in pattern across next 10
(12) sts. NEXT ROW: 1 s c in each st, ch 4, turn. NEXT ROW: Skip next
st, 2 d c, ch 1, 2 d c in next st (shell), * ch 1, skip next st, d c in
next st, ch 1, skip next st, shell in next st, repeat from * across row
ending with ch 1, d c in last st, ch 4, turn. NEXT ROW: Shell in center
of shell, ch 1, d c in next d c, repeat from beg across row ending last
repeat with d c in 3rd st of turning ch, ch 4, turn. Repeat last row 3
times joining last row to 3rd st of ch 3 at beg of row. Continue to work
in same manner always joining and turning each row until skirt measures
12 inches from beg. Then work in same manner but work 3 d c, ch 1, 3 d c
shells until skirt measures 18 inches from beg or desired length, cut
yarn. Attach yarn in 1st st at waistline, work an s c in each st and sl
st in each row at back opening. Sew zipper in position.

                                             _continuation from page 20_


                                  VEST

BACK: Starting at shoulder, ch 19, 2 d c, ch 1, 2 d c (shell) in 7th st
from hook, ch 1, skip 3 sts, d c in next st, ch 1, skip 3 sts, shell in
next st, ch 1, skip 3 sts, d c in next st, set aside. With a separate
length of yarn, ch 19 for other shoulder, shell in 7th st from hook, ch
1, skip 3 sts, d c in next st, ch 1, skip 3 sts, shell in next st, ch 1,
skip 3 sts, d c in next st, ch 15, attach to 4th st of ch at beg of 1st
section, cut yarn. Pick up dropped loop of 1st section, ch 4, turn,
shell in center of 1st shell, ch 1, d c in next d c, ch 1, shell in next
shell, ch 1, d c in st where yarn was joined, * ch 1, skip 3 sts of ch,
shell in next st, ch 1, skip 3 sts, d c in next st, repeat from * once,
ch 1, shell in next shell, ch 1, d c in next d c, ch 1, shell in next
shell, ch 1, skip 1 st of end ch, d c in next st, turn. NEXT ROW: Ch 4,
work a shell in center of each shell and a d c in each d c, working ch 1
between shells and d c. Repeat last row 9 times ending last row with ch
9. NEXT ROW: SHAPE ARMHOLES: Shell in 7th st from hook, ch 1, d c in d
c, continue in pattern across row, drop loop from hook. Attach another
strand of yarn in 2nd st of end ch of row below, ch 8, cut yarn; pick up
dropped loop, then work in pattern across ch 8, ch 4, turn. Work in
pattern for 12 inches, cut yarn.

LEFT FRONT: Ch 19, shell in 7th st from hook, ch 1, skip 3 sts of ch, d
c in next st, ch 1, skip 3 sts, shell in next st, ch 1, skip 3 sts, d c
in next st, ch 4, turn. 2nd ROW: Shell in shell, ch 1, d c in next d c,
ch 1, shell in next shell, ch 1, skip 1 st of ch at end, d c in next st,
ch 4, turn. Repeat last row 7 times. NEXT ROW: START NECK SHAPING: Shell
in shell, ch 1, d c in next d c, ch 1, shell in next shell, ch 1, trc in
next loop, ch 1, trc in 3rd st of end ch, ch 4, turn. 11th ROW: D c in
next trc, work in pattern to end of row. 12th ROW: Work in pattern
ending with ch 1, skip 1 ch, d c in next ch. 13th ROW: ARMHOLE SHAPING:
Ch 3 (counts as 1 d c), d c in same st, then work in pattern across row,
attach ch 8 same as back, work across ch in pattern, ch 4, turn. 14th
ROW: Work across row ending with 2 d c in 3rd st of ch at end. 15th ROW:
Ch 4, 2 d c in same st, then work in pattern to end of row. 16th ROW:
Work across row ending with a complete shell in last loop, ch 4, turn.
Work in pattern until there are 2 rows less than back ending at armhole
edge. NEXT ROW: SHAPE FRONT EDGE: Work across 4 shells, sl st in ch 4
loop, turn. NEXT ROW: Ch 3, sl st in center of 1st shell, ch 1, d c in
next d c, complete row in pattern, cut yarn.

RIGHT FRONT: Work 1st 9 rows same as left front ending last row with ch
5, turn. 10th ROW: Trc in 1st loop, work in pattern to end of row, ch 4,
turn. 11th ROW: Work across row ending with ch 1, d c in trc, ch 1, d c
in 3rd st of turning ch, ch 4, turn. 12th ROW: Work in pattern across
row, ch 9, turn. 13th ROW: ARMHOLE SHAPING: Work in pattern across ch
and row ending with ch 1, d c in d c, ch 1, skip 1 ch, 2 d c in next ch,
ch 3, turn. 14th ROW: D c in 1st st, ch 1, skip next d c, d c in next d
c, continue in pattern across row, ch 4, turn. 15th ROW: Work across row
ending with ch 1, 2 d c in last d c, ch 1, d c in 3rd st of end ch, ch
3, turn. 16th ROW: D c, ch 1, 2 d c in 1st ch 1 space, work in pattern
to end of row. 17th ROW: Work across 4 shells, ch 1, d c in 3rd st of
end ch, ch 4, turn. Work in pattern until there are 2 rows less than
back, ch 1, turn. NEXT ROW: SHAPE FRONT EDGE: Sl st in 1st loop, shell
in next shell, complete row. NEXT ROW: Work across 3 shells, ch 1, d c
in d c, ch 1, sl st in center of last shell, cut yarn. FINISHING: Steam
each section lightly. Sew shoulder and side seams. Attach yarn in right
side seam at lower edge, ch 3, 4 d c in same st, s c in center of next
shell, * 5 d c in next d c, s c in center of next shell, repeat from * 3
times, working up front edge, work a * 4 d c shell in base of next st
and an s c in base of next st, repeat from last * to shoulder seam,
shell in next mesh, * s c in base of next shell, shell in base of single
d c, repeat from last * once. Work other front edge to lower edge to
correspond, join, cut yarn. Work a row of s c around each armhole
working 1 s c in each loop and 1 s c in top of each d c.




                            _Make Them Lacy_


                          CROCHETED VEST & TAM

  SIZES: Small to Medium, Medium to Large
  Materials Required:
  AMERICAN THREAD
  DAWN “SAYELLE”® or “DAWN” KNITTING WORSTED
    3 (4)—4 oz. skeins Tomato or Flame
  Plastic Crochet Hook Size H for Small to Medium size; Size I for
              Medium to Large size OR ANY SIZE HOOK WHICH WILL RESULT IN
              STITCH GAUGE BELOW.
  GAUGE:
    Size H hook; 5 ch sts = 1 inch;
    Size I hook; 4 ch sts = 1 inch
  MEASUREMENTS:
  Width across back at underarm:
    17 (19) inches.
  Width across each front at underarm:
    8½ (9½) inches.


                                  VEST

NOTE: Use same directions for both sizes; see hook sizes.

BACK: Starting at neck edge, ch 56, d c in 8th st from hook, * ch 7,
skip next 7 sts of ch, 1 d c, ch 3, 1 d c (d c shell) in next st, repeat
from * 5 times, ch 1 to turn all rows. 2nd ROW: Sl st in 1st shell, ch
6, d c in same space, * ch 5, 5 d c in next shell, ch 5, d c shell in
next shell, repeat from * twice. 3rd ROW: Sl st in 1st shell, ch 6, d c
in same space, * ch 3, 2 d c in each of the 1st 2 d c of next d c group,
3 d c in next d c, 2 d c in each of next 2 d c, ch 3, d c shell in next
shell, repeat from * twice. 4th ROW: Sl st in 1st shell, ch 6, d c in
same space, * ch 1, skip 1st d c of next d c group, 2 d c in next d c, d
c in next d c, 2 d c in each of next 2 d c, 3 d c in next d c, 2 d c in
each of next 2 d c, d c in next d c, 2 d c in next d c, ch 1, d c shell
in next shell, repeat from * twice. 5th ROW: Sl st in 1st shell, ch 7,
trc in same space, * ch 7, d c shell in center d c of next d c group, ch
7, 1 trc, ch 3, 1 trc (trc shell) in next shell, repeat from * twice.
Repeat 2nd to 5th rows twice. NEXT 3 ROWS: Repeat 2nd, 3rd and 4th rows,
ch 14 at end of last row, drop yarn, do not turn. Attach a separate
length of yarn to 3rd st of ch at beg, ch 8, cut yarn. Pick up dropped
yarn, turn. NEXT ROW: D c in 7th st from hook, ch 7, trc shell in next
shell, then work from * of 5th row ending with ch 7, d c shell in last
st of free ch, ch 1, turn. NEXT ROW: Sl st in shell, ch 3 (counts as 1st
d c), 2 d c in same space, * ch 5, d c shell in next shell, ch 5, 5 d c
in next shell, repeat from * ending ch 5, d c shell in next shell, ch 5,
3 d c in last loop, turn. NEXT ROW: Ch 3, d c in same space, 2 d c in
each of next 2 d c, ch 3, d c shell in next shell, then work from * of
3rd row ending with ch 3, 2 d c in each of the last 3 sts, turn. NEXT
ROW: Ch 3, d c in same space, 2 d c in each of next 2 d c, d c in next d
c, 2 d c in next d c, ch 1, d c shell in next shell, then work from * of
4th row ending with ch 1, skip next d c, 2 d c in next st, d c in next d
c, 2 d c in each of next 2 d c, 2 d c in turning ch, ch 7, turn. NEXT
ROW: D c in same space, ch 7, trc shell in next shell, then repeat from
* of 5th row ending with ch 7, d c shell in last st at end of row, turn.

Repeat last 4 rows 5 times, cut yarn.

    [Illustration: DIRECTIONS FOR PONCHO on page 22]

LEFT FRONT: Ch 24, d c in 8th st from hook, * ch 7, skip next 7 sts of
ch, 1 d c, ch 3, 1 d c (d c shell) in next st, repeat from * once, ch 1
to turn all rows. 2nd ROW: Sl st in 1st shell, ch 6, d c in same space,
ch 5, 5 d c in next d c shell, ch 5, d c shell in next shell. 3rd ROW:
Sl st in 1st shell, ch 6, d c in same space, ch 3, 2 d c in each of next
2 d c, 3 d c in next d c, 2 d c in each of next 2 d c, ch 3, d c shell
in next shell. 4th ROW: Sl st in 1st shell, ch 6, d c in same space, ch
1, skip 1st d c of next d c group, 2 d c in next d c, d c in next dc, 2
d c in each of next 2 d c, 3 d c in next d c, 2 d c in each of next 2 d
c, d c in next dc, 2 d c in next d c, ch 1, d c shell in next shell. 5th
ROW: Sl st in 1st shell, ch 7, trc in same space, ch 7, d c shell in
center d c of d c group, ch 7, trc shell in next shell, turn. NEXT 4
ROWS: Repeat 2nd to 5th rows ending last row ch 5, turn. 10th ROW: D c
shell in 1st shell, ch 5, 5 d c in next shell, ch 5, d c shell in next
shell, ch 1, turn. 11th ROW: Repeat 3rd row but end ch 4, d c in 3rd st
of end ch, ch 9, turn. 12th ROW: Skip 1 loop, d c shell in next shell,
complete row same as 4th row. 13th ROW: Repeat 5th row but end with ch
7, skip ch 6, d c shell in next st of end ch, ch 1, turn. 14th ROW: Sl
st in shell, ch 3 (counts as 1st d c), 2 d c in same space, ch 5, d c
shell in next shell, complete row same as 2nd row. 15th ROW: Repeat 3rd
row but end ch 3, 2 d c in each d c of next d c group, ch 3, turn. 16th
ROW: D c in same space, 2 d c in each of next 2 d c, d c in next d c, 2
d c in next d c, ch 1, d c shell in next shell, complete same as 4th row
ending ch 14. 17th ROW: D c in 7th st from hook, ch 7, trc shell in next
shell, ch 7, d c shell in center d c of next d c group, ch 7, trc shell
in next shell, ch 7, d c shell in last st, ch 1, turn. 18th ROW: Sl st
in shell, ch 3, 2 d c in same space, ch 5, d c shell in next shell, ch
5, 5 d c in next shell, ch 5, d c shell in next shell, ch 5, 3 d c in
last shell. Continue in established pattern having ½ d c group on each
end until front measures same as back, cut yarn.

RIGHT FRONT: Work same as left front reversing all shaping.

FINISHING: Block each section slightly. Sew shoulder and side seams.
EDGE: Attach yarn at lower corner of right front, working up side, * ch
3, s c on side of next row, repeat from * to shoulder seam, ch 3, s c in
next large loop, ch 3, s c in same loop, ch 3, s c in base of next
shell, ch 3, s c in next large loop, ch 3, s c in same loop, ch 3, s c
in next shoulder seam, work down side to correspond to opposite side;
work along lower edge skipping the space of 2 sts, join, cut yarn. Work
edge around armholes in same manner.


                                  TAM

With same hook as vest ch 88, work same as back for 8 rows. NEXT ROW: Ch
5, trc in same space, * 1 trc, ch 1, 1 trc (trc shell) in next shell,
trc shell in center d c of next group, repeat from * across ending to
correspond, ch 1, turn. NEXT ROW: Work 1 s c in each shell and in space
between each shell, ch 1, turn. NEXT 2 ROWS: Dec in 1st 2 sts (to dec:
insert hook in st, pull loop through, insert in next st, pull loop
through, yo and work off all loops at one time), * dec in next 2 sts,
repeat from * across row, cut yarn leaving a length. Thread yarn into
blunt needle, draw all sts at top tog, fasten securely; sew side seam.
EDGE: Attach yarn at seam, work 1 s c in same space, then work 5 s c
over each ch and 1 s c at base of each shell, do not join or turn this
or following rounds, place a marker at beg of each round. NEXT 3 ROUNDS:
1 s c in each st, join at end of last round, cut yarn. BOW: Ch 40, sl st
in each st, cut yarn. Tie in bow and attach to top of tam.


                             CROCHET PONCHO

                                             _as seen in color on page 5_

  Materials Required:
  AMERICAN THREAD
  “DAWN” KNITTING WORSTED or DAWN “SAYELLE”®
    3—4 oz. skeins Orange
  Plastic Crochet Hook Size I OR ANY SIZE HOOK WHICH WILL RESULT IN
              STITCH GAUGE BELOW.
  GAUGE: Each ring measures about 1¾ inch in diameter.

Ch 18, work 16 d c in 4th ch from hook, join in 3rd st of ch, ch 2, skip
7 sts of ch, d c in next ch, * ch 2, skip 2 sts of ch, d c in next ch,
repeat from * once, do not turn. 2nd ROW: Ch 11, 4 d c in 4th ch from
hook, drop loop from hook, insert in center d c, pick up dropped loop
and pull through, 4 d c in same space with 1st 4 d c, ch 7, drop loop
from hook, insert hook in 4th d c from joining of 16 d c ring, pick up
dropped loop and pull through, ch 11, work 16 d c in 4th ch from hook,
join in ch 3, ch 2, yo twice, insert hook over same ch 11, pick up yarn
and work off 2 loops, yo, insert hook over next ch 7, pick up yarn and
work off 2 loops, y o and work off remaining loops 2 at a time, ch 5, d
c in space where sts cross at center, ch 2, sl st in top of last d c of
incomplete ring, 8 d c in same space with 1st 8 d c to complete 16 d c
ring, join in ch 3, ch 2, d c in end loop, do not turn. 3rd ROW: Ch 7,
drop loop from hook, insert hook in 4th d c from joining, pick up
dropped loop and pull through st, ch 11, 4 d c in 4th ch from hook, drop
loop from hook, insert in center of ch 5 loop, pick up dropped loop,
pull through, 4 d c in same space with 1st 4 d c, ch 7, drop loop from
hook, insert in 4th d c from joining of next 16 d c ring, pick up
dropped loop, pull through, ch 11, 16 d c in 4th ch from hook, join in
ch 3, ch 2, y o twice, insert hook over same ch 11, work off 2 loops, y
o, insert hook over ch 7 loop, work off 2 loops, y o, then work off
remaining loops 2 at a time, ch 5, d c at cross of sts, ch 2, sl st in
next d c of incomplete ring, 8 d c in space with 1st 8 d c to complete
16 d c ring, join in 3rd st of ch, ch 2, y o twice, * insert hook in
next loop, work off 2 loops, y o, repeat from * once, work off remaining
loops 2 at a time, ch 5, d c at cross of sts, do not turn. 4th ROW: Ch
11, 4 d c in 4th ch from hook, drop loop from hook, insert hook in
center of ch 5 loop, pick up dropped loop, pull through, 4 d c in same
space with 4 d c, ch 7, sl st 4th d c from joining of last 16 d c ring,
ch 11, 4 d c in 4th ch from hook, drop loop from hook, insert hook in ch
5 loop, pick up dropped loop, pull through, 4 d c in same space with 4 d
c, ch 7, sl st in 4th d c from joining of next 16 ring of 3rd row, ch
11, 16 d c in 4th ch from hook, join in 3rd st of ch, ch 2, and complete
2nd half of row to correspond to 3rd row ending same as 2nd row, do not
turn. Repeat 3rd and 4th rows having 1 more 16 d c ring in each row
until there are six—16 d c rings in row; this is the center of one
section. NEXT ROW: Continue in same manner but complete last 16 d c ring
over the ch 5 loop of previous row, work back to beg. This dec 1 ring at
end of row. Continue dec 1 ring in each row until one 16 d c ring
remains, cut yarn.

Work a 2nd section to correspond.

NECK EDGE: Working across top of both sections attach yarn and work 2 s
c over each loop and d c along edge, join in 1st s c. 2nd ROUND: Ch 3,
skip 1 s c, d c in next s c, * skip 1 s c, d c in next s c, repeat from
* all around, join in 3rd st of ch. 3rd and 4th ROUNDS: Ch 3, 1 d c in
each d c, join in 3rd st of ch. 5th ROUND: Sl st, ch 1 in each st, join,
cut yarn.

CORD: Crochet a ch about 2 yds long. Lace cord through last d c round
lacing under 2 d c and over 2 d c.

POMPONS: (Make 6) Wind yarn 50 times over a 3 inch cardboard, slip yarn
off cardboard, tie at center, cut both ends and trim into shape. Attach
3 pompons at each end of cord.




                            _Boldly Banded_


                          MAN’S CROCHET JACKET

    [Illustration: Jacket]

  Size: 40, 42, 44
  Materials Required:
  AMERICAN THREAD
  “DAWN” KNITTING WORSTED
    8 (9, 9)—4 oz. skeins Fisherman
    1 (1, 1)—4 oz. skein Wood Brown and Cocoa
  “FRUIT OF THE LOOM” HEM FACING
  1 Pkg. Brown
  6 Buttons
  Plastic Crochet Hook Size J OR ANY SIZE HOOK WHICH WILL RESULT IN
              STITCH GAUGE BELOW.
  GAUGE: 3 sts = 1 inch

Directions are given for size 40. Changes for sizes 42 and 44 are given
in parentheses.

  MEASUREMENTS:
  Width across back at underarm:
    20, 21, 22 inches.
  Width across each front at underarm:
    10, 10½, 11 inches.

BACK: With Wood Brown, ch 62 (65, 68), sdc in 3rd st from hook and in
each remaining st of ch, (sdc: y o, insert hook in st, draw yarn through
(3 loops on hook), y o hook and draw through all 3 loops at one time),
ch 2 to turn all rows. 2nd ROW: Sdc in space between next 2 sts, repeat
from beg across row working last sdc in top of ch 2. Repeat 2nd row for
pattern. Work 1 more row in Wood Brown, drop Wood Brown, (When changing
colors always work last half of st with new color). Attach Cocoa and
work 3 rows, drop Cocoa, attach Fisherman. Work even until section
measures 10 inches (all sizes) from beg. NEXT ROW: Dec 1 st at beg and
end of row (to dec: skip 1st st at beg of row and skip 2nd st from end
of row). NEXT 5 ROWS: Work even. Repeat last 6 rows twice. NEXT ROW: Inc
1 st at beg and end of row (to inc: Work 2 sts in 1st and last st of
row). NEXT 5 ROWS: Work even. Repeat last 6 rows twice. SHAPE ARMHOLES:
Sl st across 3 sts, work to within last 3 sts, turn. NEXT ROW: Dec 1 st
at beg and end of row. Repeat last row once (all sizes). Work even until
armholes measure 8 (8, 9) inches from 1st dec. SHOULDERS: Work across 16
(17, 18) sts, ch 2, turn. Work across 8 (9, 10) sts, cut yarn. Skip 18
(19, 20) sts for neck, attach yarn in next st and work across remaining
sts. NEXT ROW: Sl st across 8 (9, 10) sts, work across remaining sts,
cut yarn.

LEFT FRONT: Ch 32 (34, 36). Work same as back to armhole. SHAPE ARMHOLE
AND NECK: Work same as back and at the same time dec 1 st at neck edge
every other row 9 (10, 11) times. Work even until armhole measures same
as back. SHAPE SHOULDER: Work same as back.

RIGHT FRONT: Work same as left front reversing all shaping.

SLEEVES: With Wood Brown, ch 32 (34, 36). Work 3 rows Wood Brown and 3
rows Cocoa, remainder in Fisherman inc 1 st at beg and end of every 10th
row 5 times (all sizes). Work even until sleeve measures 19 (20, 21)
inches from beg or desired length to underarm. SHAPE CAP: Work armhole
shaping same as back. Then dec 1 st at beg and end of each row until 14
sts remain (all sizes), cut yarn.

FINISHING: Block each section lightly. Sew side, shoulder and sleeve
seams matching rows. Sew sleeves in position. LEFT FRONT BORDER: With
Wood Brown, ch 8, work in pattern for 3 rows. NEXT ROW: With Wood Brown
work across 3 sts, drop Wood Brown, attach Cocoa and work across last 3
sts. Continue in same manner until band is same length as front to neck
shaping. Then dec 1 st at each end of row. Work in same manner on 4 sts
to center back of neck, cut yarn. Work other border to correspond. Sew
borders in position. Mark right front for 6 evenly spaced buttons.

BUTTON LOOPS: Attach Wood Brown at left front edge, ch 6, skip 2 rows,
sl st to edge, cut yarn. Work 5 more button loops in same manner
matching markers.

POCKETS: Work 2. With Fisherman ch 22, work in pattern for 15 rows, then
work 3 rows Cocoa and 3 rows Wood Brown. Sew pockets in position.




                            _Flings ’n Caps_


                           HAT AND SCARF SET

  Materials Required:
  AMERICAN THREAD
  “DAWN” KNITTING WORSTED
  2—4 oz. skeins Dk. Violet
  Plastic Crochet Hook Size J


                                  HAT

Ch 5, join to form a ring, ch 1, work 8 s c in ring, join in 1st s c.
2nd ROUND: Ch 9, cluster st in 4th st from hook (cluster st: keeping
last loop of each st on hook, 3 d c in same space, y o hook and pull
through all loops at one time), ch 2, sl st in next st of ch, ch 6, sl
st in next s c, repeat from beg all around ending last repeat with d trc
in 1st sc (this brings yarn in position for next round); (d trc: Y o
hook 3 times and work off all loops 2 at a time), ch 5, join in 5th st
of ch. 3rd ROUND: Ch 2, keeping cluster st to front, sl st in next st of
ch (opposite side of cluster st), ch 5, sl st in ch below cluster st,
repeat from beg all around, join in d trc. 4th ROUND: Sl st to center st
of ch 5, ch 10, d trc in same space, ch 5, d trc in same space, * 3 d
trc with ch 5 between each d trc in center st of next ch, repeat from *
all around, join in 5th st of ch. 5th and 6th ROUNDS: Sl st to center
st, ch 10, d trc in same space, * 2 d trc with ch 5 between in center st
of next loop, repeat from * all around, join in 5th st of ch. 7th ROUND:
Sl st into loop, work 3 s c in each loop (48 s c) do not join this or
following rounds, place a marker at beg of each round. 8th to 12th
ROUNDS: 1 s c in each s c, sl st in last 3 sts at end of last round to
even round, cut yarn.


                                 SCARF
                             90 inches long

Ch 20, s c in 2nd st from hook, 1 s c in each remaining st of ch, turn.
2nd to 6th ROWS: Ch 1, 1 s c in each s c, turn, ch 6 at end of last row.
7th ROW: Skip next 2 s c, 2 d trc (3 times over hook) with ch 5 between
in next s c, repeat from beg across row ending with skip next 2 s c, d
trc in last s c, ch 6, turn. 8th ROW: 2 d trc with ch 5 between in
center st of next loop, repeat from beg across row ending with d trc in
6th st of end ch, ch 6, turn. Repeat last row for pattern. Work even in
pattern until scarf measures 88½ inches from beg or 1½ inches less than
desired length. NEXT ROW: 1 s c in d trc, 4 s c in next loop, 3 s c in
each of the next 3 loops, 4 s c in next loop, 1 s c in 6th st of end ch,
ch 1, turn, (19 sc). NEXT 5 ROWS: 1 s c in each s c, cut yarn.


                      BLACK AND WHITE HAT & SCARF

  Materials Required:
  AMERICAN THREAD
  DAWN “WINTUK” SPORT YARN SIZE
    3—2 oz. skeins White
    1—2 oz. skein Black for Scarf and
    1—2 oz. skein each White and Black for Hat
  1 Pr. Knitting Needles No. 10½ OR ANY SIZE NEEDLES WHICH WILL RESULT
              IN STITCH GAUGE BELOW.
  GAUGE: 4 sts = 1 inch


                                 SCARF

With Black, cast on 44 sts. 1st ROW: K 1, yarn to front, sl 1 as if to
P, repeat from beg across row. Repeat 1st row for pattern. Work in
following color scheme: 23 rows Black, 8 rows White, 8 rows Black, 8
rows White, 4 rows Black, 8 rows White, 8 rows Black, 8 rows White, 24
rows Black (this completes border). With White, work in pattern until
scarf measures 80 inches. Then work border from the last row to the 1st
row. Bind off 2 sts at a time.

FRINGE: Wind remainder of Black over a 15 inch cardboard, cut one end.
Take 3 strands and fold in half. Pull folded edge through st and pull
ends through loop; pull tightly. Work a fringe in each st across each
end. Trim fringe evenly.


                                  HAT

With Black, cast on 140 sts. Work border same as scarf (about 10
inches). NEXT ROW: K 2 tog across row. NEXT ROW: P 2 tog across row, cut
yarn leaving a length for weaving. Thread yarn into blunt needle, draw
through all sts, fasten securely. Weave seam.


                           FLAME SCARF & HAT

    [Illustration: Scarves and hats]

  Materials Required:
  AMERICAN THREAD
  “DAWN” KNITTING WORSTED
    2-4 oz. skeins Flame
    1 oz. each Fisherman, Antique Gold and Black
  Plastic Crochet Hook Size J OR ANY SIZE HOOK WHICH WILL RESULT IN
              STITCH GAUGE BELOW.
  GAUGE: 3 solid meshes and 2 open meshes = 2 inches


                                 SCARF

Approximate Size: 6 inches x 94 inches

With Flame, ch 25, d c in 4th st from hook, * ch 1, skip next 2 sts of
ch, 2 d c in next st, repeat from * across ch, ch 4, turn. 2nd ROW: 2 d
c in next mesh, * ch 1, 2 d c in next mesh, repeat from * across row
ending ch 1, d c in 3rd st of ch at end, turn. 3rd ROW: Ch 3, d c in 1st
mesh, * ch 1, 2 d c in next mesh, repeat from * across row, ch 4, turn.
NEXT 3 ROWS: Repeat 2nd, 3rd and 2nd rows, cut Flame, turn. (NOTE: When
changing colors, always complete last half of last st worked with new
color.) 7th ROW: START BORDER: With Black repeat 3rd row, cut Black.
Repeat 2nd and 3rd rows for pattern and work in following color scheme;
1 row Antique Gold, 1 row Fisherman, 1 row Black, 1 row Flame, 1 row
Black, 1 row Fisherman, 1 row Antique Gold (this completes border), 1
row Black, * 5 rows Flame, 1 row Antique Gold, 5 rows Flame, 1 row
Fisherman, 5 rows Flame, 1 row Black, repeat from last * 5 times ending
with 5 rows Flame, 1 row Antique Gold, 5 rows Flame. Then work border
and 6 rows of Flame, cut yarn.


                                  HAT

With Flame, ch 74, work 1st 2 rows same as scarf. NEXT 9 ROWS: Work
border same as scarf. NEXT ROW: (Dec) With Flame, ch 3, d c in 1st mesh,
* keeping last loop of each st on hook, 2 d c in next mesh, y o and work
off 2 loops, repeat from * across row, then y o and pull through all
loops on hook, y o and pull through remaining loop, cut yarn leaving a
length. Thread length into blunt needle, fasten sts securely; sew side
seam matching rows.

POMPON: Wind Flame 200 times over a 3 inch cardboard. Tie 1 end; cut
other end. Trim evenly, attach to top of hat.




                            _Pick-a-Length_


    [Illustration: Jacket]


                       KNITTED SLEEVELESS JACKET

  Sizes: Small, Medium and Large
  Materials Required:
  AMERICAN THREAD
  DAWN “SAYELLE”®
    3 (4, 4)—4 oz. skeins Lilac
    1—4 oz. skein each Hot Pink and Lt. Navy
  24 inch Circular Knitting Needle No. 6
  1 Pr. Knitting Needles No. 6 and No. 8 OR ANY SIZE NEEDLES WHICH WILL
              RESULT IN STITCH GAUGE BELOW.
  GAUGE: For No. 8 needles: 5 sts = 1 inch

Directions are given for Small size. Changes for Medium and Large sizes
are given in parentheses.

  MEASUREMENTS:
  Width across back at underarm:
    16 (17, 18) inches.
  Width across each front at underarm:
    8 (9, 9) inches.

BACK: With No. 6 needles and Lilac cast on 81 (85, 89) sts. 1st ROW: K
1, * P 1, K 1, repeat from * across row. 2nd ROW: P 1, * K 1, P 1,
repeat from * across row. Repeat 1st and 2nd rows twice. NEXT ROW:
Repeat 1st row. NEXT 2 ROWS: START BORDER: K across each row, cut Lilac.
NEXT 2 ROWS: Attach Lt. Navy, K across each row, drop Lt. Navy. NEXT
ROW: Attach Hot Pink, K across row. NEXT ROW: P across row, drop Hot
Pink. Repeat last 4 rows once, cut Hot Pink. NEXT 2 ROWS: With Lt. Navy,
K across each row, cut Lt. Navy. NEXT 2 ROWS: Change to No. 8 needles
and with Lilac, K across each row.

START PATTERN: 1st, 2nd, 3rd and 4th ROWS: * K 3, P 1, repeat from *
across row ending K 1. 5th, 6th, 7th and 8th ROWS: K 1, * P 1, K 3,
repeat from * across row. Repeat from 1st to 8th rows for pattern. Work
even in pattern until back measures 18 inches from beg or length desired
to underarm. SHAPE ARMHOLES: Bind off 4 sts (all sizes) at beg of next 4
rows. Then dec 1 st at beg and end of every other row 4 times (all
sizes). Work even in pattern until armholes measure 8½ (9, 9½) inches
from 1st bind off.

SHAPE SHOULDERS: Bind off 6 (7, 7) sts at beg of next 4 rows. Bind off
remaining sts.

RIGHT FRONT: With Lilac cast on 37 (41, 45) sts. Work same as back until
1½ inches before armhole shaping. SHAPE FRONT EDGE: Dec 1 st at beg of
row every ½ inch (all sizes) 13 (15, 19) times; at same time when front
measures same as back to underarm (ending with same number of patterns)
shape armhole same as back. When armhole measures same as back, shape
shoulder same as back.

                                             _continuation from page 13_

LEFT FRONT: Work same as right front reversing shaping.

FINISHING: Block all sections. Sew shoulder seams. FRONT BORDER: With
right side facing and circular needle, starting at center back, with Lt.
Navy pick up 180 (184, 190) sts along front edge ending at last Lt. Navy
stripe of lower border. Then turn each row, work as follows: K 1 row Lt.
Navy; K 1 row, P 1 row Hot Pink; K 1 row Lt. Navy, then pick up and K 6
sts on side of border at lower edge, K next row; P 1 row Lilac. NEXT 6
ROWS: With Lilac work in K 1, P 1 ribbing, bind off. Work border on
other front edge to correspond. Weave back seam tog. Turn border ribbing
to wrong side and tack in position. ARMHOLE EDGE: With right side of
work facing No. 6 needle and Lilac pick up 84 (86, 88) sts around
armhole. 1st ROW: K across row, drop Lilac. NEXT 2 ROWS: With Lt. Navy K
2 rows, cut yarn. NEXT 7 ROWS: With Lilac work in K 1, P 1 ribbing. Bind
off. Turn ribbing to wrong side and tack in position. Sew side seam.
Work other armhole to correspond.


                    LONG CROCHET SLEEVELESS CARDIGAN

  Sizes: Small, Medium and Large
  Materials Required:
  AMERICAN THREAD
  DAWN “WINTUK” KNITTING WORSTED
  SIZE
    6 (7, 8)—2 oz. skeins Citrus Spice
  Plastic Crochet Hook Size I OR ANY SIZE HOOK WHICH WILL RESULT IN
              STITCH GAUGE BELOW.
  GAUGE: 1 Shell = 1 inch

Directions are given for small size. Changes for medium and large sizes
are given in parentheses.

  MEASUREMENTS:
  Width across back at underarm:
    17, 18, 19 inches,
  Width across each front at underarm:
    8½, 9, 9½ inches.

BACK: Ch 71 (75, 79), 1 d c in 7th st from hook, * skip next 3 sts of
ch, 1 d c, ch 3, 1 d c (shell) in next st of ch, repeat from * across
row, 17 (18, 19) shells. 2nd ROW: Ch 6, rice st in 3rd st from hook
(rice st: Keeping last loop of each st on hook, 3 d c in same space, y o
hook and pull through all loops at one time, ch 1), * s c in ch 3 loop
of next shell, ch 4, rice st in 3rd st from hook, ch 1, s c in next
shell, repeat from * across row ending with s c in 3rd st of turning ch,
ch 6, turn. 3rd ROW: D c in same space, * shell in next s c between rice
sts, repeat from * across row ending with d c in 3rd st of turning ch.
Repeat last 2 rows twice. 8th ROW: Ch 6, d c in same space, * shell
between next 2 shells, repeat from * across row ending with d c in 3rd
st of ch, ch 6, turn. Repeat last row 3 times, but do not ch 6 at end of
last row. 12th ROW: Repeat 2nd row. 13th ROW: Repeat 3rd row. Repeat
last 2 rows once. (This completes border.) 16th ROW: Ch 6, d c in same
space, * shell between next 2 shells, repeat from * across row ending
with d c in 3rd st of ch, turn. Repeat last row for pattern until work
measures 23 inches from beg.

SHAPE ARMHOLES: NEXT ROW: Sl st across 1st 2 shells to space between 2nd
and 3rd shell, ch 6, d c in same space, work in pattern across row to
within last 3 shells, skip next d c and ch 3 of next shell, d c in next
d c, turn. NEXT ROW: Work even in pattern. NEXT ROW: Sl st across 1st
shell to space between 1st and 2nd shell, ch 6, d c in same space, work
in pattern across row ending with d c in last d c of shell before last
shell (1 shell free). Then work even in pattern until armholes measure
7½ (7½, 8) inches from beg, cut yarn. SHAPE SHOULDERS: NEXT ROW: Skip
1st 3 shells (all sizes) attach yarn between 3rd and 4th shell (all
sizes) and work in pattern across row to within last 3 shells (all
sizes) ending with d c in last dc of 4th shell (all sizes) from end, cut
yarn.

LEFT FRONT: Ch 39 (43, 47) and work same as back to underarm; (8 (9, 10)
shells). SHAPE ARMHOLE: NEXT ROW: Sl st across 2 shells and work in
pattern across row. SHAPE NECK: NEXT ROW: Ch 3, shell between next 2
shells, work in pattern across row (1 shell dec). NEXT ROW: Sl st across
1st shell and work in pattern across row ending with d c in 3rd st of
ch. NEXT 4 ROWS: Work even in pattern. NEXT ROW: Dec 1 shell at neck
edge in same manner. Then work even in pattern until armhole measures 1
row less than back armhole, cut yarn; 3 (3, 3) shells remain for
shoulder.

RIGHT FRONT: Work same as left front reversing all shaping.

FINISHING: Block each section slightly. Sew shoulder and side seams
matching rows.

EDGE: With right side facing, attach yarn in corner at lower edge and
working on opposite side of starting ch, work 2 s c in each loop of 3
skipped sts, 1 s c in st already worked in, 3 s c in corner st, working
up front edge work 100 s c (all sizes) up front to neck shaping, 26 (28,
30) s c at side of neck edge, 16 (18, 20) s c across back of neck, 26
(28, 30) s c across opposite neck edge, 100 s c (all sizes) down
opposite front edge, join, do not turn. 2nd ROUND: Ch 4, rice st in 3rd
st from hook, ch 1, skip 3 s c, s c in next s c, repeat from beg all
around, join, cut yarn.

                                             _continuation from page 13_

ARMHOLE EDGE: Attach yarn in seam st at underarm and work 72 (76, 80) s
c around armhole, join, cut yarn.




                             _The Long Rib_


    [Illustration: Slipover]


                         MAN’S RAGLAN SLIPOVER

  Sizes: 40, 42 and 44
  Materials Required:
  AMERICAN THREAD
  DAWN “SAYELLE”®
    6 (7, 8)—4 oz. skeins Burnt Orange
    1—4 oz. skein each Moss and Lemon
  1 Pr. Knitting Needles No. 9 OR ANY SIZE NEEDLES WHICH WILL RESULT IN
              STITCH GAUGE BELOW.
  1 Set Double Pointed Needles No. 6
  GAUGE: 5 sts = 1 inch

Directions are given for size 40. Changes for sizes 42 and 44 are given
in parentheses.

  MEASUREMENTS:
  Width across back or front at underarm:
    20, 21, 22 inches.

BACK: With Burnt Orange cast on 104 (107, 113) sts. 1st ROW: K 2, * P 1,
K 2, repeat from * across row. 2nd ROW: P 2, * K 1, P 2, repeat from *
across row, cut Burnt Orange. Repeat last 2 rows 6 times, working next 2
rows in Moss, then 2 in Burnt Orange, 2 in Lemon, 2 in Burnt Orange, 2
in Moss, 2 in Burnt Orange. (This completes border.) START PATTERN: 1st
ROW: With Burnt Orange K 2, * P 1, skip next st, K the next st and leave
on needle, K the skipped st and sl both sts off needle, P 1, K 2, repeat
from * across row. 2nd ROW: P 2, * K 1, P 2, repeat from * across row.
Repeat last 2 rows for pattern. Work even in pattern until back measures
19½ inches from beg or desired length to underarm. SHAPE RAGLAN: Bind
off 3 sts at beg of next 2 rows (all sizes), then keeping pattern
uniform dec 1 st at beg and end of every other row 27 (28, 29) times.
Bind off remaining sts.

FRONT: Work same as back until front measures 2 inches less than back to
underarm ending on wrong side. NEXT ROW: SHAPE V NECK: Work in pattern
across 52 (52, 55) sts, K 0 (2, 2) tog, attach another skein of yarn,
work in pattern across remaining 52 (53, 56) sts. NEXT ROW: Dec 1 st at
each side of neck edge. Then dec 1 st at each side of neck edge every
other row 6 times more (all sizes). Then dec 1 st at each side of neck
edge every 3rd row 14 (14, 16) times, at the same time when work
measures same as back to underarm shape raglan same as back until 1 st
remains on each side, cut yarn, fasten securely.

SLEEVES: With Burnt Orange cast on 50 (53, 53) sts and work 14 rows of
border same as back. Then work in pattern inc 1 st at beg and end of row
(all inc sts will be worked in pattern). Then keeping pattern uniform,
inc 1 st at beg and end of row every 1 inch until there are 74 (77, 83)
sts on needle. Work even in pattern until sleeve measures 18½ inches
from beg or length desired to underarm. NEXT 2 ROWS: Bind off 3 sts at
beg of each row. Then shape raglan same as back until 14 (15, 19) sts
remain. Bind off remaining sts.

FINISHING: Block each section slightly. Weave sleeves in position. Weave
sleeve and side seams. NECK BAND: With No. 6 dpn and Burnt Orange
starting at center back, pick up 83 (85, 87) sts along neck edge to
center of V, pick up 1 st at center for center st, pick up 83 (85, 87)
sts along opposite edge. NEXT ROUND: K 2, P 1, repeat from beg all
around dec 1 st on each side of center st (always K center st in this
and following rounds). NEXT 10 ROUNDS: Working in same manner as last
round, work next 2 rounds Moss, then 2 rounds Burnt Orange, 2 rounds
Lemon, 2 rounds Burnt Orange, and 2 rounds Moss. Bind off in pattern.

            KNITTING ABBREVIATIONS

  K           Knit
  P           Purl
  St(s)       Stitch(es)
  YO          Yarn Over
  Dec.        Decrease
  Inc.        Increase
  Tog.        Together
  Rnd.        Round
  P.s.s.o.    Pass slip st over st
  dpn         Double pointed needle
  K-O         Do not work st, row or round
  Beg.        Beginning
  Bet.        Between




                          _The Edwardian Vest_


    [Illustration: Vest]

  Sizes: Small to Medium; Medium to Large
  Materials Required:
  AMERICAN THREAD
  DAWN “WINTUK” KNITTING WORSTED SIZE
    5 (6)—2 oz. skeins Gold
  Plastic Crochet Hook Size I for small to medium size; Size J for
              medium to large size OR ANY SIZE HOOK WHICH WILL RESULT IN
              STITCH GAUGE BELOW
  GAUGE:
        Size I hook: 1 shell, 1 d knot st, 1 shell = 2¾ inches
        Size J hook: 1 shell, 1 d knot st, 1 shell = 3 inches
  MEASUREMENTS:
  Width across back at underarm:
    17 (18) inches
  Width across each front at underarm:
    8¼ (9) inches
  NOTE: Use same directions for both sizes
    see hook sizes

RIGHT FRONT: Starting at shoulder, ch 15, 5 d c in 5th st from hook,
work a s knot st (S Knot St: Draw up a ½ inch loop on hook, yo and pull
through loop, s c in single loop of st, this completes a s knot st; draw
up a ½ inch loop on hook, yo and pull through loop, s c in single loop
of st, this completes a d knot st), skip next 3 sts of ch, sl st in next
st, work a s knot st, skip next 3 sts of ch, 5 d c (shell) in next st,
skip next st, d c in next st, ch 1, turn. 2nd ROW: Skip 1st d c, s c in
1st d c of next shell, ch 5, s c in last d c of same shell, d knot st, s
c in 1st d c of next shell, ch 5, s c in last d c of same shell, ch 3,
turn. 3rd ROW: Shell in center of ch 5 loop (NOTE: All shells will be
worked in center st of loop and will not be referred to again), s knot
st, sl st in center of next d knot st, s knot st, shell in next loop, d
c in last s c, ch 1, turn. Repeat 2nd and 3rd rows 5 times, ending last
row with ch 3, turn. 14th ROW: SHAPE NECK AND ARMHOLE: S knot st, s c in
1st d c of shell (inc at beg of row), ch 5, s c in last d c of same
shell, d knot st, s c in 1st d c of next shell, ch 5, s c in last d c of
same shell, s knot st, d c in 3rd st of ch at end (inc at end of row),
ch 3, turn. 15th ROW: S knot st, sl st in s c of next s knot st, s knot
st, shell in next loop, s knot st, sl st in center of next d knot st, s
knot st, shell in next loop, s knot st, sl st in s c of next s knot st,
s knot st, d c in 3rd st of ch at end of row, ch 1, turn. 16th ROW: S c
in 1st d c, * d knot st, s c in 1st d c of next shell, ch 5, s c in last
d c of same shell, repeat from * once, d knot st, s c in 3rd st of end
ch, ch 3, turn. 17th ROW: Shell in 1st s c, * s knot st, sl st in center
of next d knot st, s knot st, shell in next loop, repeat from * across
row ending last repeat with 6 d c shell in last s c, ch 3, turn. 18th
ROW: S knot st (inc), skip 1st d c, s c in next d c, ch 5, s c in last d
c of same shell, * d knot st, s c in 1st d c of next shell, ch 5, s c in
last d c of same shell, repeat from * across row, ch 3, turn. 19th ROW:
Shell in next loop, s knot st, sl st in center st of next d knot st, s
knot st, repeat from beg twice, shell in next loop, s knot st, sl st in
s c of next s knot st, s knot st, d c in 3rd st of end ch, ch 1, turn.
20th ROW: Sc in d c, * d knot st, s c in 1st d c of next shell, ch 5, s
c in last d c of same shell, repeat from * across row, turn. 21st ROW:
Ch 3, * shell in next loop, s knot st, sl st in center of next d knot
st, s knot st, repeat from * across row ending with shell in last s c,
ch 1, turn. 22nd ROW: S c in 1st d c of shell, ch 5, s c in last d c of
same shell, d knot st, repeat from beg across row ending s c in 1st d c
of next shell, ch 5, s c in last d c of same shell, turn. 23rd ROW: Ch
3, * shell in next loop, s knot st, sl st in center st of next d knot
st, s knot st, repeat from * across row ending with shell in last loop,
d c in last s c, ch 1, turn. Repeat 22nd and 23rd rows until there are
24 shell rows from beg or length desired ending with 22nd row of
pattern. NEXT ROW: START LOWER EDGE SHAPING: Work in pattern across row
until 4 shells have been completed, then s knot st, sl st in next d knot
st, s knot st, d c in center st of next loop, ch 1, turn. NEXT ROW: S c
in d c, d knot st, s c in 1st d c of next shell, continue in pattern
across row. Repeat the last 2 rows having 3 shells only in next row, cut
yarn.

LEFT FRONT: Work same as right front reversing shaping.

BACK: Work 1st row same as right front, cut yarn, set aside. Work
another section same as 1st and 2nd rows of right front, ch 31 (39),
pick up 1st section having wrong side facing, pull up a loop in each of
the 1st 2 d c, yarn over and work off all loops at one time, complete
row, turn. 3rd ROW: Ch 3, working in pattern complete 2 shells, s knot
st, skip 1st 3 sts of ch 31 (39), * sl st in next st, s knot st, skip
next 3 sts of ch, shell in next st, s knot st, skip next 3 sts of ch,
repeat from * twice, sl st in next st, s knot st, shell in next ch 5
loop, complete row, ch 1, turn; 7 (8) shells. 4th to 13th ROWS: Repeat
the 22nd and 23rd rows of right front alternately, ending last row with
ch 3. NEXT 4 ROWS: Working in pattern, inc at beg and end of rows in
same manner as 14th to 17th rows of right front. Then repeat 22nd and
23rd rows until back is same length as fronts.

FINISHING: Steam sections. Sew seams.

                                             _continuation from page 19_

EDGE: Attach yarn at shoulder seam on wrong side; working around back of
neck, ch 5, sl st on side of next s c, ch 5, skip 1 loop, sl st in next
loop, * ch 5, sl st in next loop, repeat from * 5 times, ch 5, sl st on
side of next s c, ch 5, sl st in shoulder seam; working down front edge
ch 5, sl st on side of next s c, repeat from * 5 times, ch 5, skip 1
loop, sl st in next loop, ch 5, sl st in base of next shell, ch 5, sl st
in next loop, ch 5, sl st in base of next shell, * ch 5, sl st in base
of next d c, repeat from * 13 times, work 4 ch 5 loops around curved
edge, ending at center of d knot st, * ch 5, sl st in 1st d c of next
shell, ch 5, sl st in last d c of same shell, repeat from * across lower
edge. Work up other front edge to correspond to opposite side having
same number of loops, join, turn. FRINGE: Insert hook under ch, pick up
yarn and pull through loop on hook pulling yarn up to form a 1 inch
loop, * keep loop on hook, insert hook under ch, pull yarn through, yo
and pull through st pulling yarn up to a 1 inch length, repeat from *
working 6 fringes in each loop and 1 fringe in each sl st dropping loops
from hook when necessary, join, cut yarn.




                            _Flowery Border_


                             CROCHET DRESS

  Sizes: Small, Medium
  Materials Required:
  AMERICAN THREAD
  “DAWN” KNITTING WORSTED or DAWN “SAYELLE”®
    3 (4)—4 oz. skeins White
    1—4 oz. skein each Leaf Green or Premier Green and Lt. Raspberry or
              Folly Pink
    1 oz. Orange or Burnt Orange
  Plastic Crochet Hook size H OR ANY SIZE HOOK WHICH WILL RESULT IN
              STITCH GAUGE BELOW.
  GAUGE: Each motif measures about 4 inches.

Directions are given for small size. Changes for medium size are given
in parentheses.

  MEASUREMENTS:
  Width across bust at underarm:
    17, 18 inches

MOTIF: With Orange ch 5, join to form a ring, ch 1, 8 s c in ring, cut
yarn, attach White, join (When changing colors always complete last half
of st with next color). 2nd ROUND: Ch 7, working into single loop of
each ch work 3 s c in 2nd st from hook and in each remaining st of ch
(petal), sl st in back of 7th s c from beg of petal, s c in next s c of
1st round, repeat from beg 7 times (8 petals), join, cut yarn. 3rd
ROUND: Attach Leaf Green in s c between petals, ch 3, 2 d c in same
space, * ch 1, 3 d c in next s c between petals, repeat from * all
around, ch 1, join. 4th ROUND: 5 d c (shell) in center d c, sl st in ch
1 space, repeat from beg all around, join, cut yarn.

Work a 2nd motif in same manner, but use Lt. Raspberry for 2nd round and
join 2nd motif to 1st motif in last round as follows: 3 d c in center d
c, * drop loop from hook, insert hook in any center d c of last round of
1st motif, pick up dropped loop, 2 d c in same space of 2nd motif, sl st
in ch 1 space, 3 d c in next center d c, repeat from * once inserting
hook in next center d c of 1st motif, then complete last round same as
1st motif. Continue working and joining motifs alternating colors until
there are 10 (12) motifs in strip. Work 1 more round of motifs
alternating White and Lt. Raspberry motifs joining last motif to
opposite center d c’s arranging colors as pictured.

JOINING MOTIF: With Orange ch 5, join to form a ring, ch 1, s c in ring,
* ch 3, drop loop from hook, insert hook in joining of the 2 motifs,
pick up dropped loop and pull through, ch 3, s c in ring, repeat from *
3 times ending sl st in 1st s c, cut yarn. Work a joining motif in each
space all around.

1st ROUND: Starting at lower edge of skirt above border; attach White
between any 2 motifs, ch 4, 2 trc in same space, * 3 d c in next sl st,
5 s c in center of next shell, 5 s c in center of next shell, 3 d c in
next sl st, 3 trc between next 2 motifs, repeat from * all around ending
to correspond, join in 4th st of starting ch, ch 1, turn. 2nd ROUND: Sl
st to center d c, * ch 2, sl st in center s c of next s c group, ch 3, 2
d c, ch 3, sl st in same space, repeat from * once, ch 1, sl st in
center d c of next d c group, ch 1, sl st in center of next trc group,
ch 3, 2 d c, ch 3, sl st in same trc, ch 1, sl st in next center d c,
repeat from 1st * all around ending to correspond, join, cut yarn, turn.
3rd ROUND: Attach yarn and * sl st to 3rd st of ch, ch 4, yo hook twice,
insert hook in same st, yo, pull through st (4 loops on hook), yo, pull
through 2 loops, yo, skip 2 d c, insert hook in next st (top of ch), yo,
pull through (5 loops on hook), yo, work off all loops 2 at a time, ch
2, d c in center where sts cross, ch 4, sl st in top of same ch already
worked, ch 2, repeat from * all around, join, turn. 4th ROUND: Sl st to
ch 2 loop at top, * ch 3, 2 d c, ch 3, sl st in same loop, ch 2, sl st
in top of next ch 2 loop, repeat from * all around, join to correspond,
turn. 5th ROUND: Repeat 3rd round from 1st *. 6th ROUND: Repeat 4th
round. Repeat last 2 rounds 4 times. NEXT 6 ROUNDS: Work in pattern
having ch 1 instead of ch 2 between each pattern to shape waist. NEXT 3
ROUNDS: Work in pattern having ch 2 between each pattern. NEXT ROW:
Divide for back. SHAPE ARMHOLES: Sl st across 1 pattern, work across
next 13 (16) patterns, ch 2, sl st in top of next ch 2 loop, ch 1 to
turn this and next row. Repeat last row once, having 2 patterns less 11
(14) patterns. Continue in pattern (always sl st to top ch 2 loop at beg
of each 4th pattern row) until armholes measure 7 inches ending with 3rd
pattern row. SHAPE SHOULDERS AND NECK: Work across 3 (4) patterns for
shoulder, ch 2, * 2 s c in next ch 2 loop of next pattern, ch 2, repeat
from * 4 (5) times for neck, work in pattern to end of row for other
shoulder. NEXT ROW: Sl st to top of ch, * 1 sc in each d c, sl st in top
of ch, ch 2, sl st in top of ch, repeat from * 2 (3) times, then work 2
s c in each space and 1 s c in each s c of row below across neckline,
complete shoulder same as 1st shoulder, cut yarn.

FRONT: Attach yarn in 1st free pattern and work same as back until
armholes measure 5 inches. NEXT ROW: Work across 3 (4) patterns for
shoulder, work neckline same as back across 5 (6) patterns, work across
other shoulder. Work and complete 1 shoulder until same length as back,
drop yarn. Attach yarn on other shoulder and complete to correspond, cut
yarn. Pick up dropped yarn of 1st shoulder and work across shoulders and
neckline same as back, cut yarn. FINISHING: Sew shoulder seams. Work 1
row of s c around each armhole, join. Work a sl st in each st, cut yarn.
Work a sl st in each st around neck edge. LOWER EDGE OF DRESS: With
right side facing, attach White between any 2 motifs, sl st in same
space, ** skip next st, 5 d c in next st, * work 5 d c in center st of
next shell, repeat from * once, work 5 d c in 2nd st of next shell, sl
st between next 2 motifs, repeat from ** all around, join, cut yarn.

    [Illustration: Dress]




                            _Color Cascade_


_Poncho_
                                                       _1 size fits all_

    [Illustration: Poncho]

  Materials Required:
  AMERICAN THREAD
  DAWN “SAYELLE”® or “DAWN” KNITTING WORSTED
    5—4 oz. skeins Moss or Olive Green
    1—4 oz. skein each Burnt Orange and Lemon or Tangerine and Amber
  Plastic Crochet Hook Size J OR ANY SIZE HOOK WHICH WILL RESULT IN
              STITCH GAUGE BELOW
  GAUGE: 7 s c = 2 inches

With Moss ch 50, s c in 2nd st from hook and in each remaining st of ch,
ch 1 to turn all rows. 2nd, 3rd, 4th ROWS: 1 s c in each s c, drop Moss,
pick up Burnt Orange. (When changing colors always complete last half of
st with new color.) 5th ROW: 1 s c in 1st s c, * s c in corresponding sc
4 rows below, skip 1 s c, 1 s c in next 5 s c, repeat from * across row.
6th ROW: 1 s c in each of next 4 s c, * s c in corresponding s c 4 rows
below, skip 1 s c, 1 s c in each of next 5 s c, repeat from * across row
ending s c in corresponding s c 4 rows below, skip 1 s c, s c in last 2
s c. 7th ROW: 1 s c in each of next 3 s c, * s c in next s c 4 rows
below, skip 1 s c, 1 s c in each of the next 5 s c, repeat from *
across, ending 1 s c in next s c 4 rows below, skip 1 s c, 1 s c in
remaining 3 s c, drop Burnt Orange, pick up Lemon. 8th ROW: 1 s c in
next 2 s c, * s c in next s c 4 rows below, skip 1 s c, 1 s c in each of
the next 5 s c, repeat from * across ending in pattern as established.
9th ROW: 1 s c in each of the next 5 s c, * s c in next s c 4 rows
below, skip 1 s c, 1 s c in each of the next 5 s c, repeat from * across
ending in pattern. 10th ROW: S c in s c 4 rows below, skip 1 s c, 1 s c
in each of the next 5 s c, repeat from beg across row ending last repeat
1 s c in remaining 6 s c, drop Lemon, pick up Moss. 11th, 12th, 13th
ROWS: Repeat 5th, 6th, 7th rows, drop Moss, pick up Burnt Orange. 14th,
15th, 16th ROWS: Repeat 8th, 9th, 10th rows, cut Burnt Orange. 17th,
18th, 19th ROWS: With Lemon repeat 5th, 6th, 7th rows, cut Lemon. 20th,
21st, 22nd ROWS: Pick up Moss, repeat 8th, 9th and 10th rows,
discontinue pattern, ch 2, turn. NEXT ROW: Work 1 s d c in each s c (s d
c: yarn over, insert in st, pull through and work off all loops at one
time), ch 2 to turn all s d c rows. Work 64 more s d c rows, working
each s d c between each s d c throughout, cut yarn. Work 22 border rows
same as beginning and crochet to last row of s d c, cut yarn. Work a 2nd
section to correspond.

FINISHING: Block sections. Work a row of s d c all around neck edge
working 1 s d c into each st and in each row on sides. 2nd ROW: Work 1 s
c in 3 sts, skip 1 st, repeat from beg all around, join. 3rd ROUND:
Working into loop in back of each s c, work 1 sl st in each st, join,
cut yarn. Weave 1 short end to one long side as illustrated. Finish
other end to correspond.

LOWER EDGE: With Moss work 2 s c over 1 row, 1 s c over next row on each
long side, work 1 s c in each st across each short side, join, cut yarn.

FRINGE: Cut Moss into 7 inch lengths. Take 3 strands, fold in half,
insert hook in st, pick up fringe, pull through st, then pull ends
through loop. Work a fringe in every other st all around edge. Trim
fringe evenly.

         CROCHET ABBREVIATIONS

  Chain                     ch
  Stitch                    st
  Slip Stitch               sl st
  Single Crochet            s c
  Short Double Crochet      s d c
  OR Half Double Crochet    h d c
  Double Crochet            d c
  Treble Crochet            tr c
  Double Treble Crochet     d tr c
  Treble Treble Crochet     tr tr c
  Increase                  inc
  Decrease                  dec

Asterisk ... *. This indicates that the directions immediately following
are to be repeated the given number of times in addition to the ones
already given. Thus “repeat from * 3 times” means 4 patterns in all.


® DUPONT CERTIFICATION MARK FOR YARNS MEETING ITS FIBER CONTENT
SPECIFICATIONS




                          Transcriber’s Notes


—Silently corrected a few typos.

—Relocated material “continued on remote page” for more
  conveniently-flowing text (entire pages may appear out of order).

—Retained publication information from the printed edition: this eBook
  is public-domain in the country of publication.

—In the text versions only, text in italics is delimited by
  _underscores_.







End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Star Book No. 230: In Fashions for Him
for Her, by Anonymous

